README.md, before:

# Twitter bot series - consciousness bot

This bot tweets an inspirational status, intended to help raise the level of consciousness of the reader, or at least to make them feel a bit happier.

## Dependencies - what to install

This bot uses the following third party modules:

- tweepy (for access to Twitter api)
- psycopg2 (for interaction with postgresql)

Install these with pip in your virtual environment or globally. To learn how to work in virtual environments with python, you can read my [blog post here.](https://medium.com/@janelgbrandon/setting-up-a-python-development-environment-2e18447cbc24)

## Dependencies - database and enviroment variables

### Database requirements

This bot uses a postgresql db instance. It assumes that the following environment variables are exported (see db_connect.py):

- DBUSER (your postgresql user name)
- DBPW (your postgresql password)
- TWITTERDB (the database you are using for this bot)

This assumes you have a postgresql server instance running on port 5432 on localhost. You will have to modify the db_connect.py if you are using a non-default port or an external server.

You can create a database in your postgresql instance with a simple CREATE DATABASE command. You will have to do this before you use this bot, and specify the database name for the TWITTERDB environment variable.

### Authorization requirements

This bot authenticates with Twitter, and requires that you have a [developer account](https://developer.twitter.com/en/apply-for-access.html)

The bot assumes the following environment variables are set for authentication (see twitter_auth.py module). These values will be shown when you apply for a developer account, or when you view your developer account information in Twitter (at developer.twitter.com):

- TWITTER_CONSUMER_KEY
- TWITTER_CONSUMER_SECRET
- TWITTER_ACCESS_TOKEN_KEY
- TWITTER_ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET

## Setting up the database

The create_db.py module is included to create and populate the 'twinspirations' table. This table will store your inspirational messages, along with a self-incrementing id and a last_sent date field. The idea is that the bot will cycle through these messages, sending one each time it is run, and updating last_sent when it posts a message as a status (to put it to the back of the queue).

Add your own messages (a comma-separated list of strings) to the create_db.py file, in the call to the populate_twinspirations function.

Run ```python create_db.py``` to create the table and populate it after you have added messages.

## Running the bot

When you run ```python consciousness_bot.py``` it will get the oldest message from the database table, set it for your status, and update the last_sent in the record.

Commit message:

read messages to insert into twinspirations table from a file instead of hardcoding in populate_twinspirations function

README.md, after:

# Twitter bot series - consciousness bot

This bot tweets an inspirational status, intended to help raise the level of consciousness of the reader, or at least to make them feel a bit happier.

## Dependencies - what to install

This bot uses the following third party modules:

- tweepy (for access to Twitter api)
- psycopg2 (for interaction with postgresql)

Install these with pip in your virtual environment or globally. To learn how to work in virtual environments with python, you can read my [blog post here.](https://medium.com/@janelgbrandon/setting-up-a-python-development-environment-2e18447cbc24)

## Dependencies - database and enviroment variables

### Database requirements

This bot uses a postgresql db instance. It assumes that the following environment variables are exported (see db_connect.py):

- DBUSER (your postgresql user name)
- DBPW (your postgresql password)
- TWITTERDB (the database you are using for this bot)

This assumes you have a postgresql server instance running on port 5432 on localhost. You will have to modify the db_connect.py if you are using a non-default port or an external server.

You can create a database in your postgresql instance with a simple CREATE DATABASE command. You will have to do this before you use this bot, and specify the database name for the TWITTERDB environment variable.

### Authorization requirements

This bot authenticates with Twitter, and requires that you have a [developer account](https://developer.twitter.com/en/apply-for-access.html)

The bot assumes the following environment variables are set for authentication (see twitter_auth.py module). These values will be shown when you apply for a developer account, or when you view your developer account information in Twitter (at developer.twitter.com):

- TWITTER_CONSUMER_KEY
- TWITTER_CONSUMER_SECRET
- TWITTER_ACCESS_TOKEN_KEY
- TWITTER_ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET

## Setting up the database

The create_db.py module is included to create and populate the 'twinspirations' table. This table will store your inspirational messages, along with a self-incrementing id and a last_sent date field. The idea is that the bot will cycle through these messages, sending one each time it is run, and updating last_sent when it posts a message as a status (to put it to the back of the queue).

The create_db.py populate_twinspirations function will read a list of messages from a file called "twinspirations.txt", which is assumed to be in the same directory. You can create this file and add your own messages (one on each line), then run the create_db.py file anytime to add new messages. If you have already run it once, the table will already exist, but that's OK. A message will be shown to indicate that, and the table will still be updated with your new messages.

Run `python create_db.py` to create the table and populate it after you have added messages. Run again any time that you modify the twinspirations.txt file to add new messages to the table (remember to delete messages from twinspirations.txt that you have already added to the table).

## Running the bot

When you run `python consciousness_bot.py` it will get the oldest message from the database table, set it for your status, and update the last_sent in the record.
